Hello, everybody. Welcome to my channel. Please
subscribe to my channel as my subscription
rate is just zero point two percent. Today
I am going to explain an interesting British
horror film called "The Power". To understand
this film, first we need to know the background
of British society in the year 1974. As this
film is set in that year. In that year an
agitation was going on between coal miners
and the British Empire which was reduced to
a union called the united kingdom. The situation
was so severe that the government started
power cuts after sundown. The entire London
city was under a pitch-black darkness, people
were forced to use candles and lamps at night.
It was that era where women used to work mainly
in nursing and teaching fields. The opportunities
for women in other fields were not much. The
society was male dominant. This film’s story
is about one such nurse, Valerie, who has
shortened her name to Val.
The film starts with a nurse named Val who
was suffering from a trauma. She had a condition
called Nyctophobia, meaning the fear of darkness.
She was afraid of the darkness, a childhood
trauma caused her condition. In darkness she
used to breathe heavily, her BP used to rise,
and she used to sweat a lot. That’s why
she always worked in the day light.
We see Val joining the east London hospital
one morning. The blackouts in the city were
supposed to start starting from today. Hospital
staff were preparing for that. Val meets with
a matron nurse and joins the hospital. Matron
was a strict lady. She dictates all the rules
like, following all the orders from doctors,
no chit-chat, no makeup, no short skirts etc.
Here we also come to know that Val is an orphan,
she had no family. She grew up in our lady
of grace children home and was a devoted Catholic.
Matron places Val in a gynecology ward. Some
time later Val found a Bangladeshi immigrant,
Saba, in the nurse’s washroom. She brought
her to the second floor where she was the
patient of Dr Franklyn. Saba was suffering
from liver-related issues. Saba too had no
family as she came from a refuge camp. After
the 1971 Bangladesh genocide, many refugees
arrived in England for refuge. They were stuffed
in a make-shift camp.
Dr Franklyn was fed up with Saba as she was
not taking her medicine on time, she was roaming
around. Val talks nicely with her, she gives
her medicine. Later she does some medical
chit-chat with doctor Franklyn which impresses
him. Doctor Franklyn now requests the matron
to place Val on his ward. Matron agreed, but
she was not impressed, she stared at Val and
said, I have been working here for many years,
I know the in and out of this hospital, following
the superior’s order blindly will only make
you safe and comfortable. Otherwise, the consequence
may be fatal. Matron punishes Val for her
disobedience by placing her at a night shift.
Val knew her condition, but she said nothing
as this could place her job at risk.
The blackouts were happening in the evening,
hospital staff was sending patients, kids
to another hospital where power was there.
In this hospital only the ICU ward was getting
the power. Later, the kids from the children
ward were shifted too. We see Saba moving
as well. Val was cleaning the walls of this
ward as this was her punishment as well. I
guess at that time there was no concept of
ward boys, hence nurses might be doing the
cleaning job as well. I am not sure, but Val
was doing this job here. We see a poster outside
this ward which was for the reportage of any
sexual harassment at this hospital.
Val was cleaning one vent which had a thick
black mold. It had a foul order. Right then
the door of the store room opened on its own,
and Val heard a cracking sound. When she entered
the room for checking, some unknown force
expelled her. Val was scared here and a little
bit confused too.
In the evening Val was getting ready for the
blackouts. Suddenly, the blackout happened
before due time. Only three other nurses were
working night shifts in this hospital. Val
was supposed to be on the forth floor, but
she ended up at the second floor’s maternity
ward. Two other nurses, Comfort and Terry,
were there. Here Terry was reading Stephen
King’s famous horror book Carrie. To me,
this nurse seemed like a daring one. Reading
a horror book in a dark, empty hospital at
night!
Anyway, Comfort takes Val to the third floor.
There a senior nurse, Barb, was working. Barb
was surprised seeing Val here as she knew
her from childhood. She too grew up in that
orphanage where Val grew up. Barb knew Val’s
history. Barb was totally different from Val,
she was bold, mean, ambitious and wanted to
settle in life by marrying a rich guy. She
chose nursing as working ladies used to get
good marriage proposals. It was sad but true.
For ICU patients there was a generator at
the hospital which was providing the electricity.
When Val and Barb were talking, this generator
broke down. The total darkness spreads everywhere.
Barb grabs Val’s lamp to get emergence battery
backups. Val was alone in this darkness, and
she was scared like hell due to her condition.
She goes out to grab a candle, just then she
hears someone’s voice, someone was calling
her name in darkness. Someone grabs her from
behind, which makes her fall onto the ground.
Just then the power comes back where we see
Barb with security in-charge Neville. Neville
introduces himself to Val where Val understood
his loose character with his way of talking.
Now we see Neville harassing Barb sexually,
Barb was co-operating here. But by the looks
of her, it seemed she was in anguish. Later
Barb explains to Val that it's all common
here, to move up on the ladder one has to
obey all the orders without thinking anything.
She warns Val about these things and asks
her to be strong from day one.
After some time, Barb sends Val to the first
floor to collect a few files. Due to her condition,
Val was moving very slowly, Naville was locking
the doors to prevent criminals from looting
the hospital. Val visits Naville’s chamber
where lots of adult posters were hanging.
Naville had a collection of nurse photos which
he called a treasure collection. Basically,
for favors the hospital’s doctors were indulging
in sexual harassment of nurses. Neville was
helping them. Val gets scared seeing all this,
she runs from Neville’s chamber.
On her way back, some unknown force again
attacked Val. It's Stats to lift her skirt.
Val was visibly in panic mode, she ran from
there in darkness and ended up in the basement.
There she saw a dog doll from which lots of
noise was coming. As soon as she touches it,
something grabs her from behind, it forcefully
drags her out. In a few quick scenes we see
that Neville was burning in his chamber, someone
was notching Barb’s eyes. Later we see Val
at the maternity ward where she was in shock,
her hair was off, her clothes were dirty.
Val had no memory of what happened to her
or who did that to her. Terry gives Val a
new set of clothes as she was looking horrific.
Just then these three heard some noise in
this ward as well, upon checking it was Saba.
She was supposed to move to the other hospital,
but for some strange reason she ended up here.
She angrily explained everything to Terry
and Comfort, but they understood nothing as
Saba was speaking in the Bangla language.
The national language of Bangladesh. Here
Val gives a cookie to Saba and calms her down
again. She checks Saba’s sketch book where
she made some creepy drawings. Which makes
Val believe that she might be scared of something.
Suddenly, that unknown force possess Val,
it was agonizing her. She fell in front of
Terry and Comfort, Terry was spooked. After
a few minutes, Val became normal, but she
had no memory of what just happened to her.
Terry thinks of this as a demonic possession,
she starts to flee this hospital through a
window. There was a pipe beside that window
through which she was planning to tickle down.
Meaning this nurse was not daring after all.
I guess she was smart, by reading many horror
books she understood possession. Comfort tries
to stop her but fails. Somebody was needed
to look after the babies in this ward, so
she decided to continue her job. She has never
believed in possession anyway. She now asked
Val to go to her ward. As Val starts to leave,
she sees an image of a little girl in the
glass. This whole time this little girl’s
ghost was possessing her. Her name was Gail.
The hospital staff used to call her the dirty
Gail. Dirty Gail makes Val stab herself, Val’s
hand involuntarily stabs her with a scissor.
Val starts to bleed heavily. Comfort rushes
in disbelief and stops her bleeding. She does
her bandage. Val was knocked out. Later Val
had a dream where dirty Gail was chasing her
and Saba. Val wakes up in shock. Saba was
beside her this whole time, she gave her Gail’s
photo and said in broken English: she is forcing
me to do things.
Now Gail directly says to Comfort, you never
listened to me, I tried many times, but you
never listened to me. Comfort was horrified
as she was witnessing the possession for the
first time. She tries to insert another round
of sedative into Val’s body, but Gail who
was possessing Val stops her. She attacks
Comfort and inserts that injection back on
her. Comfort stops it at the midway. In a
hurry she grabbed Saba’s hand and ran toward
that window. Saba refuses to trickle down
as it was deep for her. Comfort goes ahead
any way, but by this time the sedative has
started its work. While on the pipe, Comfort
loses her balance, she falls down.
In the maternity ward Gail was now haunting
Barb as she knew everything but still did
nothing. Barb here accepts her mistake, she
promises to tell everything to everyone, but
Gail was in no mood to listen to anything.
She attacks her and kills her.
After some time Val came out of the possession,
she had no memory of what happened. She asks
Saba to go away from her. She starts to move
out from this hospital. On her way out, she
sees Barb’s dead body and then Naville’s
burned body. Here she gets a few visions where
Naville was doing sexual assault on Gail.
Later he killed her and placed her body with
her dog doll into the furnace. Barb saw it,
but she didn’t say anything to anyone. Sexual
harassment was common at this hospital, and
everyone knew it, everyone did it.
Next morning Val wakes up at one bed where
Saba arrives there with an interpreter. This
guy was a trainee doctor who was from the
Indian state of West Bengal, he could speak
Hindi, Bangla and English. Bangla was also
the state language of west Bengal. Saba says
Gail is not bad, she is like us, she hid me
till morning. Saba was telling some nasty
stuff about the doctors here which this Indian
guy angrily stopped her. He scolds her in
Hindi and drags her from there without translating
anything. Next hospital’s CEO, department
head, Dr Franklyn, and matron check on Val.
They knew about Val’s ghost theory through
Comfort. Val says Gail took revenge on Neville
as he killed her, and Barb knew it as well,
so she too paid the price. The department
head dismisses this accusation and quotes
one incident from Val’s childhood.
After some time we see Val getting possessed
again, this time Gail draws the picture of
Dr Franklyn. Val was shocked, she rushed from
her bed to find Saba. She found her with Dr
Franklyn who was taking her to the other hospital.
Dr Franklyn was annoyed to see Val there,
and he started to walk to her room with her.
Val signals Saba to run from here. On their
way, Val asks Dr Franklyn if he also goes
to the basement. Dr Franklyn takes this as
a signal, and he drags Val to the basement.
He had an alternate key to the basement as
many doctors here had that. Neville was the
middle man.
During Val’s childhood, her headmaster sexually
assaulted her at Our Ladies children's home.
Val told this to everyone, but nobody believed
her. The nurses, teachers and police silenced
her voice. They even accused Val of lying
for attention. Now Val here sticks to her
theory. She says Gail was real. Hospital CEO
categorically denies having any child by the
name Gail, which makes the matron uncomfortable.
As she knew about Gail.
After arriving at the basement, Val starts
calling Gail. Dr Franklyn laughs at it and
says, here The Power lies with us, we can
do anything we want. We can do whatever we
please. He was talking about men at large,
men were controlling everything at that hospital
and the society at large. He was not afraid
of anything. He starts to forcefully assault
Val. Just then Saba arrives there, which makes
him angry. Gail was possessing her, now she
possesses Val and starts to attack Dr Franklyn.
She emits powerful lights from Val’s body,
which ultimately kills him. How a child's
ghost can do this, I don’t know, but she
did it. This is a ghost movie, so anything
is possible. L O L.
Later, Val, Saba and Gail leave this hospital
where the matron helps them. She appreciates
Val’s courage of speaking the truth, which
she lacked. Hospital’s CEO gets a call from
Gail where she warns him of more killings
if he does not change the culture. She makes
him responsible.
This is a powerful film on a sensitive topic
like woman harassment. The seventies were
the time when the woman rights movement was
picking its pace. Till then, the patriarchy
saw women as a property. The power was with
them. Due to the heroic efforts of some woman,
there is some sort of gender equality in the
21st century. But it is not complete. In the
film Gail was not haunting Saba, rather she
was saving her. Saba and Val were victims,
hence Gail was able to possess them as she
was too. Saba tried to explain this fact to
Val, but the Indian guy stopped her.
Talking about one big mistake, Stephan King’s
horror book Carrie was released on April 5,
1974. This film took place in January 1974,
way before the book got released. Even though
the book was about woman power, but this type
of homage is logically wrong. I guess its
not a big deal. Any way, I enjoyed this film.
I hope you like this video. Please subscribe
and like the video. Thanks for watching. Take
care.